<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Box Seat</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="part-2" epub:type="part">
			<section id="part-2-box-seat" epub:type="chapter z3998:story">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Box Seat</h2>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal">1</p>
				</header>
				<p>Houses are shy girls whose eyes shine reticently upon the dusk body of the street. Upon the gleaming limbs and asphalt torso of a dreaming nigger. Shake your curled wool-blossoms, nigger. Open your liver lips to the lean, white spring. Stir the root-life of a withered people. Call them from their houses, and teach them to dream.</p>
				<p>Dark swaying forms of Negroes are street songs that woo virginal houses.</p>
				<p>Dan Moore walks southward on Thirteenth Street. The low limbs of budding chestnut trees recede above his head. Chestnut buds and blossoms are wool he walks upon. The eyes of houses faintly touch him as he passes them. Soft girl-eyes, they set him singing. Girl-eyes within him widen upward to promised faces. Floating away, they dally wistfully over the dusk body of the street. Come on, Dan Moore, come on. Dan sings. His voice is a little hoarse. It cracks. He strains to produce tones in keeping with the houses’ loveliness. Cant be done. He whistles. His notes are shrill. They hurt him. Negroes open gates, and go indoors, perfectly. Dan thinks of the house he’s going to. Of the girl. Lips, flesh-notes of a forgotten song, plead with him⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Dan turns into a side-street, opens an iron gate, bangs it to. Mounts the steps, and searches for the bell. Funny, he cant find it. He fumbles around. The thought comes to him that someone passing by might see him, and not understand. Might think that he is trying to sneak, to break in.</p>
				<p>Dan: Break in. Get an ax and smash in. Smash in their faces. I’ll show em. Break into an engine-house, steal a thousand horsepower fire truck. Smash in with the truck. I’ll show em. Grab an ax and brain em. Cut em up. Jack the Ripper. Baboon from the zoo. And then the cops come. “No, I aint a baboon. I aint Jack the Ripper. I’m a poor man out of work. Take your hands off me, you bull-necked bears. Look into my eyes. I am Dan Moore. I was born in a canefield. The hands of Jesus touched me. I am come to a sick world to heal it. Only the other day, a dope fiend brushed against me⁠—Dont laugh, you mighty, juicy, meat-hook men. Give me your fingers and I will peel them as if they were ripe bananas.”</p>
				<p>Someone might think he is trying to break in. He’d better knock. His knuckles are raw bone against the thick glass door. He waits. No one comes. Perhaps they havent heard him. He raps again. This time, harder. He waits. No one comes. Someone is surely in. He fancies that he sees their shadows on the glass. Shadows of gorillas. Perhaps they saw him coming and dont want to let him in. He knocks. The tension of his arms makes the glass rattle. Hurried steps come towards him. The door opens.</p>
				<p>“Please, you might break the glass⁠—the bell⁠—oh, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Moore! I thought it must be some stranger. How do you do? Come in, wont you? Muriel? Yes. I’ll call her. Take your things off, wont you? And have a seat in the parlor. Muriel will be right down. Muriel! Oh Muriel! <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Moore to see you. She’ll be right down. You’ll pardon me, wont you? So glad to see you.”</p>
				<p>Her eyes are weak. They are bluish and watery from reading newspapers. The blue is steel. It gimlets Dan while her mouth flaps amiably to him.</p>
				<p>Dan: Nothing for you to see, old mussel-head. Dare I show you? If I did, delirium would furnish you headlines for a month. Now look here. Thats enough. Go long, woman. Say some nasty thing and I’ll kill you. Huh. Better damned sight not. Ta-ta, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby.</p>
				<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby retreats to the rear of the house. She takes up a newspaper. There is a sharp click as she fits into her chair and draws it to the table. The click is metallic like the sound of a bolt being shot into place. Dan’s eyes sting. Sinking into a soft couch, he closes them. The house contracts about him. It is a sharp-edged, massed, metallic house. Bolted. About <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby. Bolted to the endless rows of metal houses. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby’s house. The rows of houses belong to other <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribbys. No wonder he couldn’t sing to them.</p>
				<p>Dan: What’s Muriel doing here? God, what a place for her. Whats she doing? Putting her stockings on? In the bathroom. Come out of there, Dan Moore. People must have their privacy. Peeping-toms. I’ll never peep. I’ll listen. I like to listen.</p>
				<p>Dan goes to the wall and places his ear against it. A passing street car and something vibrant from the earth sends a rumble to him. That rumble comes from the earth’s deep core. It is the mutter of powerful underground races. Dan has a picture of all the people rushing to put their ears against walls, to listen to it. The next world-savior is coming up that way. Coming up. A continent sinks down. The new-world Christ will need consummate skill to walk upon the waters where huge bubbles burst⁠ ⁠… Thuds of Muriel coming down. Dan turns to the piano and glances through a stack of jazz music sheets. “Ji-ji-bo, <strong>Ji-ji-bo</strong>!” ..</p>
				<p>“Hello, Dan, stranger, what brought you here?”</p>
				<p>Muriel comes in, shakes hands, and then clicks into a high-armed seat under the orange glow of a floor-lamp. Her face is fleshy. It would tend to coarseness but for the fresh fragrant something which is the life of it. Her hair like an Indian’s. But more curly and bushed and vagrant. Her nostrils flare. The flushed ginger of her cheeks is touched orange by the shower of color from the lamp.</p>
				<p>“Well, you havent told me, you havent answered my question, stranger. What brought you here?”</p>
				<p>Dan feels the pressure of the house, of the rear room, of the rows of houses, shift to Muriel. He is light. He loves her. He is doubly heavy.</p>
				<p>“Dont know, Muriel⁠—wanted to see you⁠—wanted to talk to you⁠—to see you and tell you that I know what you’ve been through⁠—what pain the last few months must have been⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Lets dont mention that.”</p>
				<p>“But why not, Muriel? I⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Please.”</p>
				<p>“But Muriel, life is full of things like that. One grows strong and beautiful in facing them. What else is life?”</p>
				<p>“I dont know, Dan. And I dont believe I care. Whats the use? Lets talk about something else. I hear there’s a good show at the Lincoln this week.”</p>
				<p>“Yes, so Harry was telling me. Going?”</p>
				<p>“Tonight.”</p>
				<p>Dan starts to rise.</p>
				<p>“I didnt know. I dont want to keep you.”</p>
				<p>“Its all right. You dont have to go till Bernice comes. And she wont be here till eight. I’m all dressed. I’ll let you know.”</p>
				<p>“Thanks.”</p>
				<p>Silence. The rustle of a newspaper being turned comes from the rear room.</p>
				<p>Muriel: Shame about Dan. Something awfully good and fine about him. But he don’t fit in. In where? Me? Dan, I could love you if I tried. I dont have to try. I do. O Dan, dont you know I do? Timid lover, brave talker that you are. Whats the good of all you know if you dont know that? I wont let myself. I? <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby who reads newspapers all night wont. What has she got to do with me? She is me, somehow. No she’s not. Yes she is. She is the town, and the town wont let me love you, Dan. Dont you know? You could make it let me if you would. Why wont you? Youre selfish. I’m not strong enough to buck it. Youre too selfish to buck it, for me. I wish you’d go. You irritate me. Dan, please go.</p>
				<p>“What are you doing now, Dan?”</p>
				<p>“Same old thing, Muriel. Nothing, as the world would have it. Living, as I look at things. Living as much as I can without⁠—”</p>
				<p>“But you cant live without money, Dan. Why dont you get a good job and settle down?”</p>
				<p>Dan: Same old line. Shoot it at me, sister. Hell of a note, this loving business. For ten minutes of it youve got to stand the torture of an intolerable heaviness and a hundred platitudes. Well, damit, shoot on.</p>
				<p>“To what? my dear. Rustling newspapers?”</p>
				<p>“You mustnt say that, Dan. It isnt right. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby has been awfully good to me.”</p>
				<p>“Dare say she has. Whats that got to do with it?”</p>
				<p>“Oh, Dan, youre so unconsiderate and selfish. All you think of is yourself.”</p>
				<p>“I think of you.”</p>
				<p>“Too much⁠—I mean, you ought to work more and think less. Thats the best way to get along.”</p>
				<p>“Mussel-heads get along, Muriel. There is more to you than that⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Sometimes I think there is, Dan. But I dont know. I’ve tried. I’ve tried to do something with myself. Something real and beautiful, I mean. But whats the good of trying? I’ve tried to make people, everyone I come in contact with, happy⁠—”</p>
				<p>Dan looks at her, directly. Her animalism, still unconquered by zoo-restrictions and keeper-taboos, stirs him. Passion tilts upward, bringing with it the elements of an old desire. Muriel’s lips become the flesh-notes of a futile, plaintive longing. Dan’s impulse to direct her is its fresh life.</p>
				<p>“Happy, Muriel? No, not happy. Your aim is wrong. There is no such thing as happiness. Life bends joy and pain, beauty and ugliness, in such a way that no one may isolate them. No one should want to. Perfect joy, or perfect pain, with no contrasting element to define them, would mean a monotony of consciousness, would mean death. Not happy, Muriel. Say that you have tried to make them create. Say that you have used your own capacity for life to cradle them. To start them upward-flowing. Or if you cant say that you have, then say that you will. My talking to you will make you aware of your power to do so. Say that you will love, that you will give yourself in love⁠—”</p>
				<p>“To you, Dan?”</p>
				<p>Dan’s consciousness crudely swerves into his passions. They flare up in his eyes. They set up quivers in his abdomen. He is suddenly over-tense and nervous.</p>
				<p>“Muriel⁠—”</p>
				<p>The newspaper rustles in the rear room.</p>
				<p>“Muriel⁠—”</p>
				<p>Dan rises. His arms stretch towards her. His fingers and his palms, pink in the lamplight, are glowing irons. Muriel’s chair is close and stiff about her. The house, the rows of houses locked about her chair. Dan’s fingers and arms are fire to melt and bars to wrench and force and pry. Her arms hang loose. Her hands are hot and moist. Dan takes them. He slips to his knees before her.</p>
				<p>“Dan, you mustnt.”</p>
				<p>“Muriel⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Dan, really you mustnt. No, Dan. No.”</p>
				<p>“Oh, come, Muriel. Must I⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Shhh. Dan, please get up. Please. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby is right in the next room. She’ll hear you. She may come in. Dont, Dan. She’ll see you⁠—”</p>
				<p>“Well then, lets go out.”</p>
				<p>“I cant. Let go, Dan. Oh, wont you please let go.”</p>
				<p>Muriel tries to pull her hands away. Dan tightens his grip. He feels the strength of his fingers. His muscles are tight and strong. He stands up. Thrusts out his chest. Muriel shrinks from him. Dan becomes aware of his crude absurdity. His lips curl. His passion chills. He has an obstinate desire to possess her.</p>
				<p>“Muriel, I love you. I want you, whatever the world of Pribby says. Damn your Pribby. Who is she to dictate my love? I’ve stood enough of her. Enough of you. Come here.”</p>
				<p>Muriel’s mouth works in and out. Her eyes flash and waggle. She wrenches her hands loose and forces them against his breast to keep him off. Dan grabs her wrists. Wedges in between her arms. Her face is close to him. It is hot and blue and moist. Ugly.</p>
				<p>“Come here now.”</p>
				<p>“Dont, Dan. Oh, dont. What are you killing?”</p>
				<p>“Whats weak in both of us and a whole litter of Pribbys. For once in your life youre going to face whats real, by God⁠—”</p>
				<p>A sharp rap on the newspaper in the rear room cuts between them. The rap is like cool thick glass between them. Dan is hot on one side. Muriel, hot on the other. They straighten. Gaze fearfully at one another. Neither moves. A clock in the rear room, in the rear room, the rear room, strikes eight. Eight slow, cool sounds. Bernice. Muriel fastens on her image. She smooths her dress. She adjusts her skirt. She becomes prim and cool. Rising, she skirts Dan as if to keep the glass between them. Dan, gyrating nervously above the easy swing of his limbs, follows her to the parlor door. Muriel retreats before him till she reaches the landing of the steps that lead upstairs. She smiles at him. Dan sees his face in the hall mirror. He runs his fingers through his hair. Reaches for his hat and coat and puts them on. He moves towards Muriel. Muriel steps backward up one step. Dan’s jaw shoots out. Muriel jerks her arm in warning of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby. She gasps and turns and starts to run. Noise of a chair scraping as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby rises from it, ratchets down the hall. Dan stops. He makes a wry face, wheels round, goes out, and slams the door.</p>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal">2</p>
				</header>
				<p>People come in slowly⁠ ⁠… mutter, laughs, flutter, whishadwash, “I’ve changed my work-clothes⁠—”⁠ ⁠… and fill vacant seats of Lincoln Theater. Muriel, leading Bernice who is a cross between a washerwoman and a blue-blood lady, a washer-blue, a washer-lady, wanders down the right aisle to the lower front box. Muriel has on an orange dress. Its color would clash with the crimson box-draperies, its color would contradict the sweet rose smile her face is bathed in, should she take her coat off. She’ll keep it on. Pale purple shadows rest on the planes of her cheeks. Deep purple comes from her thick-shocked hair. Orange of the dress goes well with these. Muriel presses her coat down from around her shoulders. Teachers are not supposed to have bobbed hair. She’ll keep her hat on. She takes the first chair, and indicates that Bernice is to take the one directly behind her. Seated thus, her eyes are level with, and near to, the face of an imaginary man upon the stage. To speak to Berny she must turn. When she does, the audience is square upon her.</p>
				<p>People come in slowly⁠ ⁠… “⁠—for my Sunday-go-to-meeting dress. O glory God! O shout Amen!”⁠ ⁠… and fill vacant seats of Lincoln Theater. Each one is a bolt that shoots into a slot, and is locked there. Suppose the Lord should ask, where was Moses when the light went out? Suppose Gabriel should blow his trumpet! The seats are slots. The seats are bolted houses. The mass grows denser. Its weight at first is impalpable upon the box. Then Muriel begins to feel it. She props her arm against the brass box-rail, to ward it off. Silly. These people are friends of hers: a parent of a child she teaches, an old school friend. She smiles at them. They return her courtesy, and she is free to chat with Berny. Berny’s tongue, started, runs on, and on. O washer-blue! O washer-lady!</p>
				<p>Muriel: Never see Dan again. He makes me feel queer. Starts things he doesnt finish. Upsets me. I am not upset. I am perfectly calm. I am going to enjoy the show. Good show. I’ve had some show! This damn tame thing. O Dan. Wont see Dan again. Not alone. Have <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pribby come in. She <em>was</em> in. Keep Dan out. If I love him, can I keep him out? Well then, I dont love him. Now he’s out. Who is that coming in? Blind as a bat. Dingbat. Looks like Dan. He mustnt see me. Silly. He cant reach me. He wont dare come in here. He’d put his head down like a goring bull and charge me. He’d trample them. He’d gore. He’d rape! Berny! He won’t dare come in here.</p>
				<p>“Berny, who was that who just came in? I havent my glasses.”</p>
				<p>“A friend of yours, a <em>good</em> friend so I hear. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Daniel Moore, Lord.”</p>
				<p>“Oh. He’s no friend of mine.”</p>
				<p>“No? I hear he is.”</p>
				<p>“Well, he isnt.”</p>
				<p>Dan is ushered down the aisle. He has to squeeze past the knees of seated people to reach his own seat. He treads on a man’s corns. The man grumbles, and shoves him off. He shrivels close beside a portly Negress whose huge rolls of flesh meet about the bones of seat-arms. A soil-soaked fragrance comes from her. Through the cement floor her strong roots sink down. They spread under the asphalt streets. Dreaming, the streets roll over on their bellies, and suck their glossy health from them. Her strong roots sink down and spread under the river and disappear in bloodlines that waver south. Her roots shoot down. Dan’s hands follow them. Roots throb. Dan’s heart beats violently. He places his palms upon the earth to cool them. Earth throbs. Dan’s heart beats violently. He sees all the people in the house rush to the walls to listen to the rumble. A new-world Christ is coming up. Dan comes up. He is startled. The eyes of the woman dont belong to her. They look at him unpleasanfly. From either aisle, bolted masses press in. He doesnt fit. The mass grows agitant. For an instant, Dan’s and Muriel’s eyes meet. His weight there slides the weight on her. She braces an arm against the brass rail, and turns her head away.</p>
				<p>Muriel: Damn fool; dear Dan, what did you want to follow me here for? Oh cant you ever do anything right? Must you always pain me, and make me hate you? I do hate you. I wish someone would come in with a horsewhip and lash you out. I wish someone would drag you up a back alley and brain you with the whip-butt.</p>
				<p>Muriel glances at her wristwatch.</p>
				<p>“Quarter of nine. Berny, what time have you?”</p>
				<p>“Eight-forty. Time to begin. Oh, look Muriel, that woman with the plume; doesnt she look good! They say she’s going with, oh, whats his name. You know. Too much powder. I can see it from here. Here’s the orchestra now. O fine! Jim Clem at the piano!”</p>
				<p>The men fill the pit. Instruments run the scale and tune. The saxophone moans and throws a fit. Jim Clem, poised over the piano, is ready to begin. His head nods forward. Opening crash. The house snaps dark. The curtain recedes upward from the blush of the footlights. Jazz overture is over. The first act is on.</p>
				<p>Dan: Old stuff. Muriel⁠—bored. Must be. But she’ll smile and she’ll clap. Do what youre bid, you she-slave. Look at her. Sweet, tame woman in a brass box seat. Clap, smile, fawn, clap. Do what youre bid. Drag me in with you. Dirty me. Prop me in your brass box seat. I’m there, am I not? because of you. He-slave. Slave of a woman who is a slave. I’m a damned sight worse than you are. I sing your praises, Beauty! I exalt thee, O Muriel! A slave, thou art greater than all Freedom because I love thee.</p>
				<p>Dan fidgets, and disturbs his neighbors. His neighbors glare at him. He glares back without seeing them. The man whose corns have been trod upon speaks to him.</p>
				<p>“Keep quiet, cant you, mister. Other people have paid their money besides yourself to see the show.”</p>
				<p>The man’s face is a blur about two sullen liquid things that are his eyes. The eyes dissolve in the surrounding vagueness. Dan suddenly feels that the man is an enemy whom he has long been looking for.</p>
				<p>Dan bristles. Glares furiously at the man.</p>
				<p>“All right. All right then. Look at the show. I’m not stopping you.”</p>
				<p>“Shhh,” from someone in the rear.</p>
				<p>Dan turns around.</p>
				<p>“Its that man there who started everything. I didnt say a thing to him until he tried to start something. What have I got to do with whether he has paid his money or not? Thats the manager’s business. Do I look like the manager?”</p>
				<p>“Shhhh. Youre right. Shhhh.”</p>
				<p>“Dont tell me to shhh. Tell him. That man there. He started everything. If what he wanted was to start a fight, why didnt he say so?”</p>
				<p>The man leans forward.</p>
				<p>“Better be quiet, sonny. I aint said a thing about fight, yet.”</p>
				<p>“Its a good thing you havent.”</p>
				<p>“Shhhh.”</p>
				<p>Dan grips himself. Another act is on. Dwarfs, dressed like prizefighters, foreheads bulging like boxing gloves, are led upon the stage. They are going to fight for the heavyweight championship. Gruesome. Dan glances at Muriel. He imagines that she shudders. His mind curves back into himself, and picks up tail-ends of experiences. His eyes are open, mechanically. The dwarfs pound and bruise and bleed each other, on his eyeballs.</p>
				<p>Dan: Ah, but she was some baby! And not vulgar either. Funny how some women can do those things. Muriel dancing like that! Hell. She rolled and wabbled. Her buttocks rocked. She pulled up her dress and showed her pink drawers. Baby! And then she caught my eyes. Dont know what my eyes had in them. Yes I do. God, dont I though! Sometimes I think, Dan Moore, that your eyes could burn clean⁠ ⁠… burn clean⁠ ⁠… <strong>burn clean</strong>!..</p>
				<p>The gong rings. The dwarfs set to. They spar grotesquely, playfully, until one lands a stiff blow. This makes the other sore. He commences slugging. A real scrap is on. Time! The dwarfs go to their corners and are sponged and fanned off. Gloves bulge from their wrists. Their wrists are necks for the tight-faced gloves. The fellow to the right lets his eyes roam over the audience. He sights Muriel. He grins.</p>
				<p>Dan: Those silly women arguing feminism. Here’s what I should have said to them. “It should be clear to you women, that the proposition must be stated thus:</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p>Me, horizontally above her.<br/>
					Action: perfect strokes downward oblique.<br/>
					Hence, man dominates because of limitation.<br/>
					Or, so it shall be until women learn their stuff.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p class="continued">So framed, the proposition is a mental-filler, Dentist, I want gold teeth. It should become cherished of the technical intellect. I hereby offer it to posterity as one of the important machine-age designs. <abbr class="initialism">P.S.</abbr> It should be noted, that because it <em>is</em> an achievement of this age, its growth and hence its causes, up to the point of maturity, antedate machinery. Ery⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>The gong rings. No fooling this time. The dwarfs set to. They clinch. The referee parts them. One swings a cruel uppercut and knocks the other down. A huge head hits the floor. Pop! The house roars. The fighter, groggy, scrambles up. The referee whispers to the contenders not to fight so hard. They ignore him. They charge. Their heads jab like boxing-gloves. They kick and spit and bite. They pound each other furiously. Muriel pounds. The house pounds. Cut lips. Bloody noses. The referee asks for the gong. Time! The house roars. The dwarfs bow, are made to bow. The house wants more. The dwarfs are led from the stage.</p>
				<p>Dan: Strange I never really noticed him before. Been sitting there for years. Born a slave. Slavery not so long ago. He’ll die in his chair. Swing low, sweet chariot. Jesus will come and roll him down the river Jordan. Oh, come along, Moses, you’ll get lost; stretch out your rod and come across. <strong>Let my people go!</strong> Old man. Knows everyone who passes the corners. Saw the first horsecars. The first Oldsmobile. And he was born in slavery. I did see his eyes. Never miss eyes. But they were bloodshot and watery. It hurt to look at them. It hurts to look in most people’s eyes. He saw Grant and Lincoln. He saw Walt⁠—old man, did you see Walt Whitman? Did you see Walt Whitman! Strange force that drew me to him. And I went up to see. The woman thought I saw crazy. I told him to look into the heavens. He did, and smiled. I asked him if he knew what that rumbling is that comes up from the ground. Christ, what a stroke that was. And the jabbering idiots crowding around. And the crossing-cop leaving his job to come over and wheel him away⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>The house applauds. The house wants more. The dwarfs are led back. But no encore. Must give the house something. The attendant comes out and announces that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Barry, the champion, will sing one of his own songs, “for your approval.” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Barry grins at Muriel as he wabbles from the wing. He holds a fresh white rose, and a small mirror. He wipes blood from his nose. He signals Jim Clem. The orchestra starts. A sentimental love song, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Barry sings, first to one girl, and then another in the audience. He holds the mirror in such a way that it flashes in the face of each one he sings to. The light swings around.</p>
				<p>Dan: I am going to reach up and grab the girders of this building and pull them down. The crash will be a signal. Hid by the smoke and dust Dan Moore will arise. In his right hand will be a dynamo. In his left, a god’s face that will flash white light from ebony. I’ll grab a girder and swing it like a walking-stick. Lightning will flash. I’ll grab its black knob and swing it like a crippled cane. Lightning⁠ ⁠… Someone’s flashing⁠ ⁠… someone’s flashing⁠ ⁠… Who in hell is flashing that mirror? Take it off me, godam you.</p>
				<p>Dan’s eyes are half blinded. He moves his head. The light follows. He hears the audience laugh. He hears the orchestra. A man with a high-pitched, sentimental voice is singing. Dan sees the dwarf. Along the mirror flash the song comes. Dan ducks his head. The audience roars. The light swings around to Muriel. Dan looks. Muriel is too close. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Barry covers his mirror. He sings to her. She shrinks away. Nausea. She clutches the brass box-rail. She moves to face away. The audience is square upon her. Its eyes smile. Its hands itch to clap. Muriel turns to the dwarf and forces a smile at him. With a showy blare of orchestration, the song comes to its close. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Barry bows. He offers Muriel the rose, first having kissed it. Blood of his battered lips is a vivid stain upon its petals. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Barry offers Muriel the rose. The house applauds. Muriel flinches back. The dwarf steps forward, diffident; threatening. Hate pops from his eyes and crackles like a brittle heat about the box. The thick hide of his face is drawn in tortured wrinkles. Above his eyes, the bulging, tight-skinned brow. Dan looks at it. It grows calm and massive. It grows profound. It is a thing of wisdom and tenderness, of suffering and beauty. Dan looks down. The eyes are calm and luminous. Words come from them⁠ ⁠… Arms of the audience reach out, grab Muriel, and hold her there. Claps are steel fingers that manacle her wrists and move them forward to acceptance. Berny leans forward and whispers:</p>
				<p>“Its all right. Go on⁠—take it.”</p>
				<p>Words form in the eyes of the dwarf:</p>
				<blockquote>
					<p>
						<span>Do not shrink. Do not be afraid of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
						<i>Jesus</i>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See how my eyes look at you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
						<i>the Son of God</i>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too was made in His image.</span>
						<br/>
						<span><i>was once</i>⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I give you the rose.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>Muriel, tight in her revulsion, sees black, and daintily reaches for the offering. As her hand touches it, Dan springs up in his seat and shouts:</p>
				<p>“<strong>Jesus was once a leper!</strong>”
				<br/>
				</p>
				<p>Dan steps down.</p>
				<p>He is as cool as a green stem that has just shed its flower.</p>
				<p>Rows of gaping faces strain towards him. They are distant, beneath him, impalpable. Squeezing out, Dan again treads upon the corn-foot man. The man shoves him.</p>
				<p>“Watch where youre going, mister. Crazy or no, you aint going to walk over me. Watch where youre going there.”</p>
				<p>Dan turns, and serenely tweaks the fellow’s nose. The man jumps up. Dan is jammed against a seat-back. A slight swift anger flicks him. His fist hooks the other’s jaw.</p>
				<p>“Now you have started something. Aint no man living can hit me and get away with it. Come on on the outside.”</p>
				<p>The house, tumultuously stirring, grabs its wraps and follows the men.</p>
				<p>The man leads Dan up a black alley. The alley-air is thick and moist with smells of garbage and wet trash. In the morning, singing niggers will drive by and ring their gongs⁠ ⁠… Heavy with the scent of rancid flowers and with the scent of fight. The crowd, pressing forward, is a hollow roar. Eyes of houses, soft girl-eyes, glow reticently upon the hubbub and blink out. The man stops. Takes off his hat and coat. Dan, having forgotten him, keeps going on.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
